---
layout: post
title:  "Noisy Zero-Shot Coordination"
date:   2022-01-01 00:00:00 +00:00
image: /images/marco.gif
venue: Oxford MSc Thesis supervised by Jakob Foerster
categories: research
authors: "<strong>Jia Wan</strong>"
arxiv: https://www.dropbox.com/s/dcsp6ant6haila0/Noisy%20ZSC.pdf?dl=0
code: https://github.com/jw3479/noisy-ZSC
---
Most MARL settings have focused on the paradigm of self-play, where the set of partners an agent faces when deployed in the real world is the same set of partners the agent trained with in simulations. However, self-play incurs incompatibility among independently trained policies, making it unfit for the purpose of human-AI coordination. Zero-shot coordination (ZSC) gives a closer proxy for human-AI coordination by preventing the agents from adopting idiosyncratic behaviors or conventions that are not interpretable by agents that were not present during training. Moreover, agents might each have their private models of the tasks, which might not perfectly align with the ground truth. We propose the noisy zero-shot coordination (noisy ZSC) problem to model such coordination scenarios under misalignment. On the theoretical side, we formally introduce noisy ZSC and offer a new perspective of the noisy ZSC problem by showing that any noisy ZSC problem can be reduced to a ZSC problem with respect to a standard Dec-POMDP. On the empirical side, we propose a test bed environment called the noisy lever game to benchmark coordination under the noisy ZSC framework and empirically evaluate the performance of independent PPO (IPPO) on the noisy lever game, comparing against 3 intuitive heuristic policies. Our empirical experiments show that IPPO converges to a policy with successful ZSC performance under the low noise regime yet tend to form arbitrary conventions under the high noise regime. 
